# disaster-medium
This a repository created for the competition code.fun.do++ conducted by Microsoft India.
Challenge: Predict Natural Disasters
Idea:
    Generally, a variety of equipment data is carefully analyzed by expert scientists before predicting a natural disaster. Novice scientists are usually less accurate than experts. This is one of the fields where experience comes into handy rather than math or We can say that the brain of an expert scientist has learned to make sense of the data subconsciously. Here the idea is to use machine learning models to create a complex formula that accurately predicts a disaster event. Based on the above-mentioned idea we can train a machine learning model to predict a formula that generalizes and fits over years of data i.e the model helps the computer gain years of experience in a short span of time. Now, this task requires lots of data and since this is almost an unpredictable task data augmentation is difficult. But researchers have been collecting this data for years and predicting the occurrence of disaster events. We can use this data and some modern-day machine learning techniques to identify and train a model. My idea is to take into consideration the extra parameters that the human brain calculates subconsciously like whether the vision of cracks in the soil or look of dryness of grass or sound of harsher water waves and imbibe them into previously calculated models and train it accordingly. Hopefully, this data will be enough but if not we can always improvise, adapt and overcome!
